\input texinfo
@settitle Instructions for working in 3DViewer v2.0

3DViewer v2.0 User's Guide

Description of 3DViewer v2.0

The application provides a graphical 3DViewer with support for the following functions:

1. Loading a wireframe model from a .obj file (only a list of vertices and edges is supported).

2. Moving the model by a given distance relative to the X, Y, Z axes.

3. Rotate the model by a given angle relative to its X, Y, Z axes.

4. Scaling the model by the specified value.

5. Change the type of projection (parallel and central).

6. Change the type of display of the "edges" lines (solid, dotted), color and thickness.

7. The way the vertices are displayed (missing, circle, square), the color and size of the vertices.

8. Change the background color.

9. Saving the received ("rendered") images to a file in bmp and jpeg formats.

10. Recording small "screencasts" in the form of gif animation.


Instruction manual:

1. To download the wireframe model from the obj file, click on the "Browse" button.

2. To save the settings (projection type, line type (solid, dotted), edge color and thickness, vertex display method (missing, circle, square), vertex color and size, background color), click "Save Settings". Note: The settings will be saved between restarts of the program.

3. You can also download previously used settings by simply clicking the "Download Settings" button.

4. In the "Projection" menu, select the type of projection: Parallel or central.

5. In the "Vertex Size" menu, specify the thickness of the vertices.

6. In the "Vertex Type" menu, you can select the type (missing, circle, square).

7. In the "Vertex Color" menu, you can select a color.

8. In the "Edge Type" menu, you can select the type of line (dotted or solid).

9. In the "Edge Color" menu, you can choose a color.

10. In the "Edge Thickness" menu, specify the edge thickness.

11. To move the model relative to the X, Y, Z axes, check the box to the left of the "X", "Y", "Z" fields and move the slider to the right of the "Movement" button.

12. To scale the model, use the slider to the right of the "Move" button.

13. To rotate the model relative to its X, Y, Z axes, use the buttons or enter a value in the corresponding field in the menu next to the specified values "X", "Y", "Z".

14. To create a screenshot, click the "Save" screenshot button. You can find the screenshot on the "Desktop".

15. Next to the "Save" button, you can specify the file format (jpeg or bmp) to save the screenshot.

16. To record a gif animation, click the "Record GIF" button. Then within 5 seconds your gif animation will be recorded. You can find the Gif animation on the "Desktop".

17. To close the program, click on the cross in the upper right corner of the program.

Thanks.

@bye
